# AvyData-

  In backcounty skiing avalanches are a constant factor in decision making. In order to safely travel in the backcountry, one must be able to make decisions based off of intuition, science, weather, and measeurements. A small miscalculation has the potential to cause a tragic accident. Most backcountry skiiers heavily rely on shaded gradient maps showing the slope of each section of the terrain and use this to navigate around dangerous sections - to oversimplify it: if the slope is less than 30 degrees it is generally safe in all conditions, if it is between 30 and 45 degrees many factors play into the likelyhood of causing an avalanche. 
  In the winter of 2021 in the mountains just outside Salt Lake City there was a tradgic accident involving two groups of skiers stuck in an avalanch and ended in multiple deaths. It was a pretty shocking accident because the skiers were all pretty experienced but somehow two groups made the same bad decision to be out on the wrong slope in the wrong conditions. The spot they were skiing looked benign on most shaded slope maps, it looked like a slope most people would consider safe given dangerous conditions. After doing more research I found that there have been multiple avalanches in the past on this slope, maybe if these groups had known the history of this slope they would have made a different decision. 
  I think historic avalanch data should be used in the descision making process. The goal of this project is to gather historic avalache data and find a way to represent it so that it can be used both when planning a backcountry ski route and to use it in real time when out in the backcountry. 
